.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii pconnect.1
.\"
.TH PCONNECT 1 "AUGUST 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
pconnect \- Proxy helper for nxssh
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pconnect [-dnhs45]
.BI [-R \ resolve ]
.BI [-p \ local-port ]
.B [-H
.BI [ user @] proxy-server [: port ]]
.B [-S
.BI [ user @] socks-server [: port ]]
.I host port
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pconnect
provides an external proxy command for nxssh.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
Enable debug output.
.IP -n
Connect directly without a proxy.
.IP -h
Connect via a HTTP proxy.
.IP -s
Connect via a SOCKS proxy.
.IP -4
Use SOCKS4 protocol. Valid only, if using a SOCKS proxy.
.IP -5
Use SOCKS5 protocol. Valid only, if using a SOCKS proxy.
.IP "-R resolve"
Use
.I resolve
method. Valid only, if using a SOCKS proxy. Possible values for
.I resolve
are
.BR local , \ remote \ and \ both .
If an IP address is specified, that address is used as nameserver.
.IP "-p local-port"
Listen on
.I local-port
instead of forwarding stdin and stdout.
.IP -H
Specify hostname and optionally port and user for connecting
to a HTTP proxy. The default for
.I port
is
.BR 80 .
The default for
.I user
is
.BR none .
.IP -S
Specify hostname and optionally port and user for connecting
to a SOCKS proxy. The default for
.I port
is
.BR 1080 .
The default for
.I user
is
.BR none .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP HTTP_PROXY
If set,
.B -H
can be omitted.
.IP "SOCKS5_SERVER, SOCKS4_SERVER, SOCKS_SERVER"
If set,
.B -S
can be omitted.
.IP "SOCKS5_RESOLVE, SOCKS4_RESOLVE, SOCKS_RESOLVE"
Can be set to the same value like the
.B -R
parameter.
.IP "SOCKS5_USER, CONNECT_USER, LOGNAME, USER"
The username for SOCKS5 authentication. Variables are checked in the specified sequence.
.IP SOCKS5_PASSWORD
If set, this is used for SOCKS5 authentication.
.IP "HTTP_PROXY_USER, CONNECT_USER, LOGNAME, USER"
The username for HTTP proxy authentication. Variables are checked in the specified sequence.
.IP "HTTP_PROXY_PASSWORD, CONNECT_PASSWORD"
If set, this is used for HTTP proxy authentication.
.IP SSH_ASKPASS
If set, specifies the full path to a GUI program for fetching a password from the user.
.IP DISPLAY
Must be set on UNIX machines, in order to facilitate ssh-askpass.
.SH BUGS
None so far.
.SH AUTHOR
Fritz Elfert <felfert at users dot sourceforge dot net>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ssh (1)
